TATKAL RESERVATION CAN OPEN 2 OR MORE DAYS IN ADVANCE:
Tatkal reservation opens 1 day in advance at 10 am for ac class and at 
11am for non-ac class. But if the train departs from your boarding 
station one day after it begins its journey from its originating station
then tatkal reservation will open 2 days in advance for your journey. 
For example, the tatkal ticket from Delhi to Mumbai in Punjab Mail 
(12138) opens 2 day in advance because the train departs from Delhi 
on 2nd day of its journey! Similarly, advance reservation period in this
case is 121 days and not 120 days.

GET A CONFIRM TICKET BY EXTENDING DESTINATION CITY: 
If you are getting waiting ticket for your origin-destination pair in a 
train, then change the destination to a station which comes 2-3 stops 
after your alight station. Sometimes you might find confirmed ticket in 
this case. Or if not confirmed then you might find a better waiting list 
quota. For example, if you have to go from Delhi to Surat in Mumbai 
Rajdhani (12952) you get a RSWL from Delhi to Surat (which has less
chances of confirmation), but if you book ticket from Delhi to Mumbai
you might get a confirmed ticket or a GNWL waiting list (which has 
much better chances of confirmation). And you can still alight the 
train at Surat!

TAKE CARE OF DATE IF DEPARTURE IS AFTER 12 MIDNIGHT: 
In cases where train departure time at passenger boarding station is
after 12am (say 12:30am), then you should keep in mind to put journey
date as the next day.

CIRCULAR JOURNEY:
If you wish to go on a tour where no. of destinations is between 4 and 
8, you can opt for circular journey tickets. For this ticket, journey 
should begin and end at the same station. These tickets give the 
benefit of telescopic rates which are considerably lower than regular 
point-to-point fare.

DO NOT BOARD THE TRAIN IF ALL PASSENGERS ARE IN WAITING LIST:
If you have a waitlisted e-ticket and it remains fully waitlisted 
(waitlisted for all the passengers) even after chart preparation then 
your names will not come in chart and the tickets will get automatically
cancelled. Please DO NOT board the train in this case as it is treated as
ticketless travel.

GET YOU SEAT/BERTH CHECKED BY TTE:
If you do not get your ticket checked by TTE, then he might assign your
seat/berth to someone else.